# Face-Mask-Detection-MobileNetV2

Today the biggest problem the world is facing above all the natural disasters is the Covid-19. It's been more than a year but the solution to the issue is still at a far fetch. However, there are still few ways to control the outbreak as instructed by the WHO (World Health Organization). A few among them are wearing a mask and maintaining social distance. The objective of the project is to detect face masks in a public gathering or an event. The algorithm used in the project to achieve the objective is MobileNet V2. An image of a few people wearing a mask and without wearing a mask is used as an input dataset. There are few processes involved in achieving the objective of the project that include pre-processing, data augmentation, training, testing and image segmentation. After the processes, with the help of the Mask R-CNN algorithm, will get a segmented image of the input dataset of people wearing a mask and people not wearing a mask. Then, the model is implemented using a webcam to get the result of people wearing a mask and not
wearing a mask along with the accuracy in percentage. In this project, developing a model that can detect people who are not wearing masks in public places. This project can be merged with real time applications at airports, railway stations, workplaces, schools, and other public places to ensure compliance with the guidelines for public safety. In the middle of the Covid-19 crisis the project focuses on achieving the guidelines provided by WHO to control the spread of Covid-19.
